---
{"publish":true,"created":"2025-12-18T00:42:14.798+05:30","modified":"2025-12-18T00:42:14.803+05:30","cssclasses":""}
---


### Ability Crafting

In order for Story-Classing to work, a DM must be willing to have their players discover and invent new ways to use their abilities. As the name implies, this suggested ruling enables the player the ability to ask their DM to allow their character to learn a new ability.
Abilities is a very open definition as it applies to nearly everything a player can do. To give a few examples: a Gadgeteer invents new mods, a Medic creates new creations for them to use, the Chef creates a new set of recipes that give the party benefits, the Brawler learns a new way to use their martial arts, the Fighter develops a new battlemaster maneuver, or if a devil fruit user wants to use their fruit in a new way.
The way in which players can craft abilities is very dependent on the DM and the character and has a variety of steps. First and foremost, the player describes what they want their character to learn, and then the DM decides if that is a reasonable action that the character can accomplish, maybe adding a resource or drawback associated with the ability. Then the DM assigns a specific skill check associated with the ability and a DC (DM's discretion) that the player must reach in order to learn the ability. Depending on the nature of the ability, the DM may rule that it would take multiple ability checks to master the ability. The chosen skill check must be relevant to the ability, for example using a Wisdom based skill to learn a martial arts, or using a Charisma based skill to make a new Bard creation, or if you have a devil fruit, using the devil fruit skill. Lastly, the player rolls, and if their successes fulfill the requirements, they gain the ability. However, an ability can also be further refined if possible. Once an ability is gained, it functions much like an additional power, expanding the abilities of the user.
To give some more in-depth coverage, two examples will be provided: A fishman karate brawler and a battlemaster fighter with a devil fruit that allows them to conjure and manipulate gel.
The fishman karate brawler may want to make a new ability, let's say the ability to move water into a small wave. Since the player is versed in fishman karate, it is reasonable that they can accomplish that and the DM determines that the character would roll a Wisdom check that adds their proficiency bonus against a DC. If the fishman brawler succeeds, they can gain the ability to once a day use the Tidal Wave creation when they are near a significant body of water.
The battlemaster fighter with the gel devil fruit may want to use his devil fruit in tandem with his battlemaster maneuvers, creating new ones that are fueled by his fruit. For example, he makes a maneuver that blinds a target for a round, using his gel to cover the eyes of his target. The DM has the character roll using his devil fruit skill check, and when he succeeds, he adds the battlemaster maneuver to the ones he knows.
As you can see, the goal of ability crafting is to allow the DM and their players a method of naturally progressing their characters and their abilities, making the world feel more alive as we learn new things every day in the real world. Much like the additional power system and devil fruit system, the book provides both a guideline and inspiration of what the DMs and players can do. With the right amount of initiative and creativity, your game and world can expand vastly.