---
{"publish":true,"created":"2025-12-18T00:42:14.857+05:30","modified":"2025-12-18T00:42:14.862+05:30","cssclasses":""}
---


### Boarding Combat

When two ships are in close combat, boarding combat begins as fighters from each ship engage each other. The frontliners make their moves by swinging from ropes, setting up gang planks, and readying themselves to rush to the other ship to wreck havoc while the ranged combatants provide supporting fire. Essentially, boarding combat functions much like regular combat with slightly different terrain. This rule implements means for navigating combat when ships are in close proximity.
#### Crossing Ships
There are various ways to cross between two ships outside of abilities such as flying or teleporting from devil fruits and creations. Below are a few examples and ways to rule them:
* **Bridges.** Physical bridges between two ships can be easily run in many ways. Gangplanks can be set in place by crew members as an action. Most wooden gang planks are 10ft, but there are exceptions such as automated, metal gangplanks that can extend to 30ft. Creatures can also attempt to make makeshift bridges, such as formed from a substance created by a devil fruit. Gangplanks are objects and can be attacked and destroyed much like any other object. Temporary bridges can also be formed via using a chain cannonball shot from the cannon can also form a bridge, though due to the unstable nature would count as difficult terrain.
* **Swinging.** One major hallmark of boarding combats between pirates is the ability to swing from one ship to another via a rope. In order to initiate a swing from one ship to another, you must have a rope of at least 50 ft length anchored directly above you. You can expend half your movement speed for your turn to attempt either a Strength (Athletics) or Dexterity (Acrobatics) check, DC 10. On a failure, you fail to travel a significant distance. On a success you swing a distance from where you initiated the swing equal to 20 ft + an additional 5 ft for each increment of 5 rolled above the DC on the check. For example, if you were to roll a 15, you would swing 25ft.
* **Pulling Ships.** Another method of crossing ships is pulling an enemy ship towards your own. This can be accomplished with the chain cannonball shot option, though your players may attempt to invent other means. When a ship is hit by the chain cannonball, the chain connects both ships together. If the ship has a mechanism in which to pull the chains together, a creature at the helm can use their action to command the ship to roll 1d20 on the ship's turn. On a roll of 10, the enemy ship is pulled 10ft closer. If the ship that is pulling is larger than the ship that is being pulled, it rolls with advantage, and if the pulling ship is smaller it instead pulls itself towards the attached ship. If there are additional chains, the feet pulled increases by 10ft. If a mechanism is not available, but there are chains present, the DM can rule that players with a significant Strength score can attempt pull the ships together.
#### Ship Movement in Combat
In combat, a ship has its own initiative, which is simply just a flat 1d20 roll. On the ship's turn in combat, it simply moves in the direction it is set to move in at its movement speed.
A creature that is within reach of the helm can make an attempt to change the course of the ship, or operate any special mechanisms made to the ship. These special actions activate on the ship's next turn in combat. Creatures must make a Water Vehicles check to change the course of a ship, except any creature with the Helmsman background. If the waters are particularly wild, the DM may rule that the Helmsman may need to make a roll.
#### Attacking The Ship
A creature can instead attempt to attack the ship rather than a creature. This acts much like attacking any object, referencing the ship's AC, HP, and Damage Threshold when relevant.
Any area of effect damage like from a creation or damage spread from a cannon also damages the ship. Remember that inanimate objects automatically fail saving throws. Additionally, like all objects, ships are immune to psychic and poison damage.
In the event a ship does reach 0 hit points and begin taking in water and sinking, refer to the Building, Maintaining, and Repairing You Ship section.